make pool drain oep as implementable (#4275)
openebs/openebs: designs/replicated-pv/mayastor/pool-drain.md

- `PartiallyDrained` — replicas evacuated, snapshots intentionally left behind (reported when
  allocation cannot reach zero because snapshots remain).
- `Aborted` — a transient cleanup phase entered when a drain is cancelled. `drain_spec` is **retained**
  (with `phase = Aborted`) throughout cleanup — not cleared up front — so the pool stays discoverable
  and self-cordoned while the drain's changes are unwound; only once cleanup completes are
  `drain_spec` and the `PoolDrainRecord` cleared. Unlike `Drained` this is not a retained terminal
  state (see *Abort support*).

> **Pre-requisites:** the pool must not already be in a `Queued`, `Draining`, or

Reviewer: I thought we were going to take drain command again for accepting the snapshot loss if the user had not first done so?

Author: They can do that after the current request completes with `PartiallyDrained`? This stops them from modifying ongoing drain request. We can allow also, snapshot cleanup is triggered after we move replicas.

We should block when its in `Aborted` (transient state, cleared when we undo drain changes).

  rebuild on an already-degraded volume. Our own rebuilding spare is not such a reason; the
  draining-pool child may be removed as long as `num_replicas` copies are `Online`.

**Unpublished volume.** There is no live nexus to rebuild through, so the split is by **target
history**, not replica count:

- **Ever published:** the volume holds data that must be preserved, so it is evacuated **exactly like
  a published volume** and with the same policy flags — only over the temporary nexus that the existing
  offline-rebuild mechanism provides, and regardless of replica count.
- **Never published:** there is no data to rebuild, so — the only case that differs — remove the
  draining-pool child and add a replacement on an eligible pool.

**Snapshot replicas.** Snapshots cannot be migrated in Phase 1 and a moved replica leaves its snapshots
behind on the pool, so the user must choose a policy — a drain of a pool holding snapshots with
**neither** flag set is **rejected**:

- `--accept-snapshot-loss` — move all replicas, then destroy the snapshots left on the pool; allocation
  reaches zero and the pool reaches `Drained`.

> - `--drain-replicas-only` — move all replicas and leave the snapshots; the pool reaches

Reviewer: Something like this seems clearer to me but I'll let others weigh in

```suggestion
- `--ignore-snapshots` — move all replicas and leave the snapshots; the pool reaches
```

  `PartiallyDrained`, stays online serving them, and can be uncordoned and restored from later. Because
  allocation stays non-zero, `DestroyPool` still fails (*"please drain the diskpool before attempting
  destroy"*) until the user re-drains with `--accept-snapshot-loss`.

(A volume with multiple replicas keeps its snapshot on the other replicas. The platform does not

> currently support having fewer snapshots than the replica count, so true snapshot evacuation waits for

Reviewer: > The platform does not
currently support having fewer snapshots than the replica count

Is this really true? After taking 1 snapshot can't we then scale up the volume?

Author: Does work if its BestEffort policy.

a **per-replica** grace interval.

The grace is anchored on the marker itself (`DrainConfig.applied_at`), so each move is timed
independently. When the reconciler begins a `spare_replica = Some` move it sets the marker with
`applied_at = now`, then the existing volume hotspare reconciler tries to find a pool to place the spare.

- **Placed:** `spare_replica` is populated, its rebuild runs, and on completion `draining_replica` is
  scaled down and the marker cleared. No eviction.
- **Not placed within the grace:** once `now - applied_at >= grace` with `spare_replica` still
`Some(SpareReplica(None))`, the replica is treated as unplaceable and is force-evicted.

Because `applied_at` is stamped when the move *begins* (i.e. when this replica becomes the volume's
active move, not while it sits deferred behind a sibling), each replica gets its **own full grace
window** regardless of how long it waited its turn. It is re-stamped in exactly one other place — a
`Respare` unwind, where a second drain displaces this move's healthy spare (see *The spare's own pool
enters a drain*).

> A zero duration is **rejected at admission with an error**, since it would conflate "wait then evict"

Reviewer: > A zero duration is **rejected at admission with an error**, since it would conflate "wait then evict"

a zero duration here could mean we check if we can over-replicate, and if we can we do it, otherwise we evict

But `unsafe-evict` never over-replicates, always evicts?

Author: unsafe-evict is always evict without trying. Shall we support zero duration (trying once)?
